WHATSNEW.TXT                  Copyright (c) 1999-2011 Excelsior, LLC.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

                 Native XDS-x86 Win32 Edition
                 ----------------------------
                            v2.60

                    Fixes And New Features


Version 2.60
------------

       This is a maintenance release fixing some bugs in the
       compiler and the runtime library. 
       
       The XDS setup package includes three products now:
         - Native XDS-x86,
         - XDS-C and
         - TopSpeed Compatibility Pack.

Library:

        Open Watcom C compiler is supported out-of-the-box.

Win32 IDE:

        Definition of macro commands for keyboard events.
        To view the description of the macros, select the "XDS Help"  
        item in the Excelsior XDS folder of your Start menu, then select 
        "XDS Environment -> Keyboard help -> Macros".

        IDE is configured for Native XDS-x86 out-of-the-box. To activate XDS-C 
        settings, go to the "bin" directory of XDS installation folder and 
        copy file "xdsc.ini" into "xds.ini". To restore Native XDS-x86
        settings, copy "xdsc.ini" to "xds.ini".



Version 2.50
------------

Compiler:

        Bug-fixes

Library:

        GC speedup and drastic reducing memory consumption

        Adaptive heaplimit (setting HEAPLIMIT to 0 results in
        heuristic choice of heaplimit at run-time)

        GCTHRESHOLD does no longer affect memory management

        Bug-fixes



Version 2.45
------------

New components:

        Remote debugger

Compiler:

        Partial support for SYSTEM.INT64 data type

Library:

        Memory management speedup


Version 2.40
------------

Compiler:

	Compilation speeded up (on large projects by more than 20%)

        Optimization improvements

	Improvements in debug info generation

Library:

	Module FileSys enhanced

        Many improvements and additions in the TS-like library (modules
        BiosIO, MsMouse, and partially FIOR added, many additions in Graph
        and Lib).

            Note: the TS-like library is now available as a separate product
        
Run-time support:

	Memory management speedup

        Interface to runtime library initialization and cleanup is provided
        (module XDSRTL)

Debugger:

	Plenty of improvements (see XD User's Guide, section Introduction/
        New in version 1.1)


Version 2.32
------------

	Maintenance release.

Version 2.31
------------

	GNU COFF support for compatibility with DJGPP

Version 2.30
------------

New components:

	Symbolic debugger

	Profiler

	Disassembler

	Resource compiler


Compiler:

	Inline assembler

	Complete debug info

	Support	for COFF object file format 

	Support for HLL4 debug info format (OMF object files only)

Linker:

        Support for LX executable module format (used on OS/2) 
	
	Support for HLL4 debug info format (used on OS/2) 

	Complete support of DLLs 

Library:

	DLL versions of single- and multi-thread libraries

Run-time support:

	Separate startup code for .EXE and .DLL

	Support for DLLs (module dllRTS, history routines, etc.)

Win32 IDE:

	New editor class developed to replace RichEdit control

	Bookmarks

	Multi-level Undo

	Ability to display a file in more than one window

	Extended MDI (docked and free windows, WinBar, etc.)

WIN32 API definition modules:

        Some bugs fixed

Library manager:

	Ability to build export definition files from DLLs

H2D:

	Generalized #variant directive
	
	Custom mapping of C base types to Modula-2 types

	Non-standard directives extraction

	Options renamed to follow XDS compilers style

	Control file syntax now closely matches used by XDS compilers


Version 2.21
------------

This is merely a fixed and slightly improved v2.20. The only
major addition is the TopSpeed-like library set.


Version 2.20
------------

This version is the first commercial release which comes with the IDE.
The following changes were made since 2.10 release and 2.14 pre-release:

Compiler:

        A number of bugs fixed

        SYM-FILE VERSION CHANGED - RECOMPILATION IS NECESSARY

        Pentium instruction scheduling implemented

        A number of floating-point optimizations introduced

        Integer division by constant is now replaced with multiplication

        xc =m <file> now calls linker if <file> is a Modula-2 program
        module or an Oberon-2 main module (option MAIN is on)

        The SYSTEM.REF procedure was added (the same as ADR, but returns
        typized pointer.

        Compatibility rules for foreign procedures are relaxed further
        (see User's Guide->Multilanluage Programming->Relaxation of
        compatibility rules).

        Much more efficient (but still not ideal) code is generated 
        for aggregate constants.

        Equations and environment variables may be used in redirections:
        *.sym = $(XDSDIR)/sym

        Separate exception source for ASSERT added

        Compiler sets new equations:
                MODULE (name of the current module)
                FILE (name of the current file)

        Compiler exit code is now either 0 (ok) or 1 (error).

        SYSTEM.FILL is added

        <type>(<const>) is now equivalent to SYSTEM.CAST(<type>,<const>)

        BOOLEAN, SYSTEM.BOOL8 and SYSTEM.BOOL32 are much more compatible

        SYSTEM.M2ADR is available from Oberon-2

        CODENAME and DATANAME equations for segment names

        CPU486 is replaced with CPU and MINCPU

        It is now possible to declare/set equations in source text

        ALIGNMENT is an inlineable equation now (1,2, or 4)

        DEF option is renamed to CHANGESYM to avoid conflicts
        
        VAR-parameters can be marked as NIL-compatible
        
        SYSTEM.BOOL16 added
        
        Default sizes of enumeration and small set (<17 elements) types
        can be specified inline via ENUMSIZE and SETSIZE equations
        
        Options and equations syntax unified
        
        Foreign modules (e.g. resource files) are now supported in 
        project files and templates
        
        UNC filenames (\\computer\dir\file) are now accepted.

Linker:

	linker is now able to pass messages to the IDE
	
	COFF object files and libraries are supported (but not properly tested
	yet)

Library:

        Some bugs fixed

	Multithread version of all libraries and implemented

        Added module Printf

        ISO modules LowReal, LowLong are implemented

        ProgEnv.String and ProgEnv.StringLength are implemented
        
        ISO I/O library speeded up significantly
        
        Raw operations are allowed on standard channels

Run-time support:

        Multithread version of run-time support is implemented
        
        History is always written to file now
        
        Oberon-2 finalizers are called on program termination

Win32 IDE:

        Plenty of bugs fixed
        
        Context help added

        Files are opened using redirections and lookups if typed without
        path

        IDE maintains a list of source files which are either specified
        by user or received from the compiler.

        Project file editor:
                user options/equations
                module list
                
        User-defined tools
        
        Window layout and cursor positions are stored for each project
        
        Prompt for saving changed files
        
        F1 in Message list displays message description topic
        
        IDE now has its own redirection file - xds.red

WIN32 API definition modules:

        Some bugs fixed

Doc:

        New manuals:
	        ISO Modula-2 Library Reference
        	ISO Modula-2 Lexis and Syntax
        	XDS Library Guide and Reference


        RegComp.Substitute description is corrected


Version 2.10
------------

This is the first product version of Native XDS. After more
then half a year of extensive testing we are happy to announce this
product.

For the users of XDS v2.06 we list the differences between v2.06
and v2.10. Note: there are no product versions such as v2.07,
v2.08, v2.09. The version v2.07 was used internally and
distributed as beta and demo version.

What is new in v2.10:

        1) Extended syntax of conditional expressions, e.g:

           <* IF defined cc & (cc = Watcom) THEN *>

           See "Configuring XDS" and "Conditional compilation".

        2) Relaxed compatibility rules are introduced for
           parameters of "C" procedures. See "Multilanguage
           programming".

        3) String literal may be used in a direct language
           specification instead of numeric values:
              "Oberon"  = 0
              "Modula"  = 1
              "C"       = 2
              "Pascal"  = 5
              "StdCall" = 7 (Win32 standard calling convention)
              "SysCall" = 8 (OS/2 system calls)

        4) new equations
              COMPILERHEAP   - defines compiler heap limit
              COMPILERTHRES  - defines compiler threshold

        5) New clause in the ERRFMT equation - errno (error
        number).

        6) new option M2UNPACKTYPES - for Windows interface

        7) new ALIGNMENET option

        8) equation declaration syntax is introduced:
           -xxx!value

        9) Make does not use dependency on a project file.


       10) New directives may be used in configuration, redirection
           project and template files:

           !if expr then
           !elsif expr then
           !else
           !end

           !message expr

           expr = simple [ ("=" | "#" | "<" | ">") simple ]
           simple = term { "+" | "OR" term }
           term = factor { "AND" factor }
           factor = "(" expr ")"| quoted_string
                  | "NOT" factor | "DEFINED" ident | ident
           ident = option | equation

       11) In all system files:

            \ at the end of line - line continuation.

            $! - denotes the directory name of this file:
               *.sym = $!/sym;

       12) new template syntax (See "Template files").

                         [end of document]
